# Stakeout

## Chip Limeburner

**Artist's Statement**

*Stakeout* is an interactive storytelling experience inspired by the aesthetic content of movies such as [House on Haunted Hill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_on_Haunted_Hill), and [Clue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clue_(film)), as well as the narrative framing of Alfred Hitchcock’s [Rear Window](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rear_Window). Players are positioned outside an old mansion, looking in at its inhabitants through the viewfinder of a camera. With nothing but a telephoto lens at their disposal, players can watch the inhabitants move about the house, tracking their motion and inferring interactions between them, but are otherwise separated from the broader context and detail of what's taking place inside. In this vacuum of meaning, the player is left to take photos and construct their own understanding of the events. The experience presents a story about mystery, not only in genre, but also the themes of ambiguity and uncertainty it explores.

Mechanically, the main technology the experience makes use of is serial communications between an Arduino microcontroller and the javascript browser session via a locally run p5.serialcontrol server. More specifically, sensor data from player interaction is gathered by the microcontroller, processed locally, and then sent as a single byte to the server, which in turn passes it to the browser. This allows for greater immersion as the Arduino microcontroller is used as a camera-like device, emulating not only the manual winding of film and photo-taking, but even the experience of vision becoming zoomed-in and narrowed when lifting a camera's viewfinder to one's eye. This is achieved technically with a photo-resistor that detects when the camera is held down (zoomed out) and when it is raised to the face (zoomed in). By employing gestures that closely mimic the device it simulates, the peripheral “camera” extends the immersion of the narrative. Though players are locked into a relatively stationary perspective, the uniqueness of their experience derives from their own physical engagement with it, and the mental processes that accompany their observation. 
